Problems organisations face with previous architecture

If we have 4 source systems and 6 target systems, we will write 24 integrations

Each integrations comes with it's own difficulties
    Protocol - how the data is transported
    Data format - How the data is parsed (Binary, csv, json, Avro )
    Data schema and evolution - How the data is shaped and schema is changed

Each source system may have increased load from the connections


How do we solve this?
    THis is where Apache Kafka comes in. It allows us to decouple our data streams and our systems. Now our source systems will have
their data in Apache Kafka. While our target systems will source our data straight from Apache Kafka. This decoupling is what is so
good about Apache Kafka and what it enable sis really really nice.


What can we have in Kafka?
    We can have any data stream we can think about.

For example: it could be web-site events, pricing data, financial transaction, user interactions and many more.
Additionally once the data is in kafka, we may want to put it in any system we like such as database, analytic systems, our schema
system and audit.


Why Apache Kafka
    It is created by Linkedin. It is an open source project mainly maintained by confluent
    Distributed, resilient architecture, fault tolerant

    Horizontal scalability
        Can scale to 100s of brokers
        Can scale to millions of messages per second

    High performance (latency of less than 10 ms) - al time
    Used by 2000+ firms, 35% of Fortune 500



Use cases for Apache kafka
    Messaging system
    Activity Tracking
    Gather metrics from different locations
    Application logs gathering
    Stream processing (with the kafka Streams API or Spark for example)
    De-coupling of system dependencies
    Integration with Spark, Storm, Hadoop and many other Big Data technologies

Companies use Kafka to make real time recommendations, real time decisions and real time insights to users.

In this kafka is only used as a transportation mechanism. We still need to write our web applications to make things work, but kafka is
really good at making data move at really fast rate at our company